README.md, before:

# [![Mattermost logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7205829/137170381-fe86eef0-bccc-4fdd-8e92-b258884ebdd7.png)](https://mattermost.com)

[Mattermost](https://mattermost.com) is an open source platform for secure collaboration across the entire software development lifecycle. This repo is the primary source for core development on the Mattermost platform; it's written in Go and React and runs as a single Linux binary with MySQL or PostgreSQL. A new compiled version is released under an MIT license every month on the 16th.

[Deploy Mattermost on-premises](https://mattermost.com/deploy/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme), or [try it for free in the cloud](https://mattermost.com/sign-up/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme).

<img width="1006" alt="mattermost user interface" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7205829/136107976-7a894c9e-290a-490d-8501-e5fdbfc3785a.png">

Learn more about the following use cases with Mattermost:

- [DevSecOps](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/devops/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)
- [Incident Resolution](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/incident-resolution/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)
- [IT Service Desk](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/it-service-desk/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)

Other useful resources:

- [Download and Install Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html) - Install, setup, and configure your own Mattermost instance.
- [Product documentation](https://docs.mattermost.com/) - Learn how to run a Mattermost instance and take advantage of all the features.
- [Developer documentation](https://developers.mattermost.com/) - Contribute code to Mattermost or build an integration via APIs, Webhooks, slash commands, Apps, and plugins.

Table of contents
=================

- [Install Mattermost](#install-mattermost)
- [Native mobile and desktop apps](#native-mobile-and-desktop-apps)
- [Get security bulletins](#get-security-bulletins)
- [Get involved](#get-involved)
- [Learn more](#learn-more)
- [License](#license)
- [Get the latest news](#get-the-latest-news)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Install Mattermost

- [Download and Install Mattermost Self-Hosted](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html) - Deploy a Mattermost Self-hosted instance in minutes via Docker, Ubuntu, or tar.
- [Get started in the cloud](https://mattermost.com/sign-up/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme) to try Mattermost today.
- [Developer machine setup](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/server/developer-setup) - Follow this guide if you want to write code for Mattermost.


Other install guides:

- [Deploy Mattermost on Docker](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-docker.html)
- [Mattermost Omnibus](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/installing-mattermost-omnibus.html)
- [Install Mattermost from Tar](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-tar.html)
- [Ubuntu 20.04 LTS](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/installing-ubuntu-2004-LTS.html)
- [Kubernetes](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-kubernetes.html)
- [Helm](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-kubernetes.html#installing-the-operators-via-helm)
- [Debian Buster](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-debian.html)
- [RHEL 8](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-rhel-8.html)
- [More server install guides](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html)

## Native mobile and desktop apps

In addition to the web interface, you can also download Mattermost clients for [Android](https://mattermost.com/pl/android-app/), [iOS](https://mattermost.com/pl/ios-app/), [Windows PC](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#windows-10-windows-8-1), [macOS](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#macos-10-9), and [Linux](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#linux).

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30978331/272826427-6200c98f-7319-42c3-86d4-0b33ae99e01a.png" alt="Get Mattermost on Google Play" height="50px"/>](https://mattermost.com/pl/android-app/)  [<img src="https://developer.apple.com/assets/elements/badges/download-on-the-app-store.svg" alt="Get Mattermost on the App Store" height="50px"/>](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/mattermost/id1257222717?mt=8)  [![Get Mattermost on Windows PC](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095357-39cab8d2-ceb8-11e7-89a6-67dccc571ca3.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#windows-10-windows-8-1-windows-7)  [![Get Mattermost on Mac OSX](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095355-39a36f2a-ceb8-11e7-9b33-73d4f6d5d6c1.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#macos-10-9)  [![Get Mattermost on Linux](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095354-3990e256-ceb8-11e7-965d-b00a16e578de.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#linux)

## Get security bulletins

Receive notifications of critical security updates. The sophistication of online attackers is perpetually increasing. If you're deploying Mattermost it's highly recommended you subscribe to the Mattermost Security Bulletin mailing list for updates on critical security releases.

[Subscribe here](https://mattermost.com/security-updates/#sign-up)

## Get involved

- [Contribute to Mattermost](https://handbook.mattermost.com/contributors/contributors/ways-to-contribute)
- [Find "Help Wanted" projects](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22Help+Wanted%22&utf8=%E2%9C%93)
- [Join Developer Discussion on a Mattermost server for contributors](https://community.mattermost.com/signup_user_complete/?id=f1924a8db44ff3bb41c96424cdc20676)
- [Get Help With Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/get-help.html)

## Learn more

- [API options - webhooks, slash commands, drivers, and web service](https://api.mattermost.com/)
- [See who's using Mattermost](https://mattermost.com/customers/)
- [Browse over 700 Mattermost integrations](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/)

## License

See the [LICENSE file](LICENSE.txt) for license rights and limitations.

## Get the latest news

- **X** - Follow [Mattermost on X, formerly Twitter](https://twitter.com/mattermost).
- **Blog** - Get the latest updates from the [Mattermost blog](https://mattermost.com/blog/).
- **Facebook** - Follow [Mattermost on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/MattermostHQ).
- **LinkedIn** - Follow [Mattermost on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/mattermost/).
- **Email** - Subscribe to our [newsletter](https://mattermost.us11.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=6cdba22349ae374e188e7ab8e&id=2add1c8034) (1 or 2 per month).
- **Mattermost** - Join the ~contributors channel on [the Mattermost Community Server](https://community.mattermost.com).
- **IRC** - Join the #matterbridge channel on [Freenode](https://freenode.net/) (thanks to [matterircd](https://github.com/42wim/matterircd)).
- **YouTube** -  Subscribe to [Mattermost](https://www.youtube.com/@MattermostHQ).

## Contributing

[![Small Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contribute%20with-Gitpod-908a85?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost)

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
[Join the Mattermost Contributors server](https://community.mattermost.com/signup_user_complete/?id=codoy5s743rq5mk18i7u5ksz7e) to join community discussions about contributions, development, and more.

Commit message:

Update README about modules, fork, etc.

README.md, after:

This is a mattermost fork. Web content that was specified in LICENSE.txt to be under MIT license has been moved to https://github.com/projectaquifer/blue.

This repository is a submodule of https://github.com/projectaquifer/aquifer.

---

# [![Mattermost logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7205829/137170381-fe86eef0-bccc-4fdd-8e92-b258884ebdd7.png)](https://mattermost.com)

[Mattermost](https://mattermost.com) is an open source platform for secure collaboration across the entire software development lifecycle. This repo is the primary source for core development on the Mattermost platform; it's written in Go and React and runs as a single Linux binary with MySQL or PostgreSQL. A new compiled version is released under an MIT license every month on the 16th.

[Deploy Mattermost on-premises](https://mattermost.com/deploy/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme), or [try it for free in the cloud](https://mattermost.com/sign-up/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme).

<img width="1006" alt="mattermost user interface" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7205829/136107976-7a894c9e-290a-490d-8501-e5fdbfc3785a.png">

Learn more about the following use cases with Mattermost:

- [DevSecOps](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/devops/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)
- [Incident Resolution](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/incident-resolution/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)
- [IT Service Desk](https://mattermost.com/solutions/use-cases/it-service-desk/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme)

Other useful resources:

- [Download and Install Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html) - Install, setup, and configure your own Mattermost instance.
- [Product documentation](https://docs.mattermost.com/) - Learn how to run a Mattermost instance and take advantage of all the features.
- [Developer documentation](https://developers.mattermost.com/) - Contribute code to Mattermost or build an integration via APIs, Webhooks, slash commands, Apps, and plugins.

Table of contents
=================

- [Install Mattermost](#install-mattermost)
- [Native mobile and desktop apps](#native-mobile-and-desktop-apps)
- [Get security bulletins](#get-security-bulletins)
- [Get involved](#get-involved)
- [Learn more](#learn-more)
- [License](#license)
- [Get the latest news](#get-the-latest-news)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Install Mattermost

- [Download and Install Mattermost Self-Hosted](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html) - Deploy a Mattermost Self-hosted instance in minutes via Docker, Ubuntu, or tar.
- [Get started in the cloud](https://mattermost.com/sign-up/?utm_source=github-mattermost-server-readme) to try Mattermost today.
- [Developer machine setup](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/server/developer-setup) - Follow this guide if you want to write code for Mattermost.


Other install guides:

- [Deploy Mattermost on Docker](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-docker.html)
- [Mattermost Omnibus](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/installing-mattermost-omnibus.html)
- [Install Mattermost from Tar](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-tar.html)
- [Ubuntu 20.04 LTS](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/installing-ubuntu-2004-LTS.html)
- [Kubernetes](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-kubernetes.html)
- [Helm](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-kubernetes.html#installing-the-operators-via-helm)
- [Debian Buster](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-debian.html)
- [RHEL 8](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-rhel-8.html)
- [More server install guides](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/deployment.html)

## Native mobile and desktop apps

In addition to the web interface, you can also download Mattermost clients for [Android](https://mattermost.com/pl/android-app/), [iOS](https://mattermost.com/pl/ios-app/), [Windows PC](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#windows-10-windows-8-1), [macOS](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#macos-10-9), and [Linux](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop-app-install.html#linux).

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30978331/272826427-6200c98f-7319-42c3-86d4-0b33ae99e01a.png" alt="Get Mattermost on Google Play" height="50px"/>](https://mattermost.com/pl/android-app/)  [<img src="https://developer.apple.com/assets/elements/badges/download-on-the-app-store.svg" alt="Get Mattermost on the App Store" height="50px"/>](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/mattermost/id1257222717?mt=8)  [![Get Mattermost on Windows PC](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095357-39cab8d2-ceb8-11e7-89a6-67dccc571ca3.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#windows-10-windows-8-1-windows-7)  [![Get Mattermost on Mac OSX](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095355-39a36f2a-ceb8-11e7-9b33-73d4f6d5d6c1.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#macos-10-9)  [![Get Mattermost on Linux](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33878967/33095354-3990e256-ceb8-11e7-965d-b00a16e578de.png)](https://docs.mattermost.com/install/desktop.html#linux)

## Get security bulletins

Receive notifications of critical security updates. The sophistication of online attackers is perpetually increasing. If you're deploying Mattermost it's highly recommended you subscribe to the Mattermost Security Bulletin mailing list for updates on critical security releases.

[Subscribe here](https://mattermost.com/security-updates/#sign-up)

## Get involved

- [Contribute to Mattermost](https://handbook.mattermost.com/contributors/contributors/ways-to-contribute)
- [Find "Help Wanted" projects](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22Help+Wanted%22&utf8=%E2%9C%93)
- [Join Developer Discussion on a Mattermost server for contributors](https://community.mattermost.com/signup_user_complete/?id=f1924a8db44ff3bb41c96424cdc20676)
- [Get Help With Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/guides/get-help.html)

## Learn more

- [API options - webhooks, slash commands, drivers, and web service](https://api.mattermost.com/)
- [See who's using Mattermost](https://mattermost.com/customers/)
- [Browse over 700 Mattermost integrations](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/)

## License

See the [LICENSE file](LICENSE.txt) for license rights and limitations.

## Get the latest news

- **X** - Follow [Mattermost on X, formerly Twitter](https://twitter.com/mattermost).
- **Blog** - Get the latest updates from the [Mattermost blog](https://mattermost.com/blog/).
- **Facebook** - Follow [Mattermost on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/MattermostHQ).
- **LinkedIn** - Follow [Mattermost on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/mattermost/).
- **Email** - Subscribe to our [newsletter](https://mattermost.us11.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=6cdba22349ae374e188e7ab8e&id=2add1c8034) (1 or 2 per month).
- **Mattermost** - Join the ~contributors channel on [the Mattermost Community Server](https://community.mattermost.com).
- **IRC** - Join the #matterbridge channel on [Freenode](https://freenode.net/) (thanks to [matterircd](https://github.com/42wim/matterircd)).
- **YouTube** -  Subscribe to [Mattermost](https://www.youtube.com/@MattermostHQ).

## Contributing

[![Small Image](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contribute%20with-Gitpod-908a85?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost)

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
[Join the Mattermost Contributors server](https://community.mattermost.com/signup_user_complete/?id=codoy5s743rq5mk18i7u5ksz7e) to join community discussions about contributions, development, and more.
